Why did you choose your proposed course and institution*?
Master of Science in Earth Science with specialization in Atmospheric Science at The University of Melbourne is my proposed course and institution. Atmospheric science is the subject of climate study which investigating climate variability and longer-term changes through analysis of observations and climate model simulations. I am interested in how changing climate will shape the future condition of Indonesia, which has a plentiful natural disaster like weather extremes or extreme rainfall.
However, the knowledge of extreme rainfall hazard that occurs in coastal areas in Indonesia is not yet known clearly. It is believed coastal cities would be more vulnerable to this hazard, but it is not clear which cities would have the greater risk. My work with Prof Eddy Hermawan at the Center of Atmospheric Science and Technology (PSTA) in the National Institute of Aeronautics and Space of Indonesia (LAPAN) about extreme rainfall in major coastal cities such as Jakarta, Semarang, and Makassar. The mechanism of the same extreme rainfall hazard in those cities was different, so the predicted climate rainfall in those cities might be different as well. Such as experience encouraged me deeper to broaden my knowledge of climate and atmospheric science, especially in computational skills and theoretical aspects. For this reason, I would confidently continue my study in atmospheric science.
The second choice is Master of Science in Atmospheric Science at Monash University. The course at Monash is very similar to UoM, the research projects there is a mostly theoretical and little observational study rather than at UoM. Both universities are located in Melbourne. It will give many opportunities for me to extend my network in the atmospheric science community and engaged in volunteering activities. Since Melbourne is home to the Bureau of Meteorology, Royal Institution Victorian, CSIRO Atmospheric Modelling, and Science Society.
