Background
I am a graduate of Bachelor of Science at Diponegoro University, majored in the Physics study program with a concentration in Geophysics and Meteorology. During college, I was actively involved in research and scientific activities both in cross-departmental organizations and especially in the Geophysics scientific field group. Outside of campus activities, I also actively disseminate science to the public, such as organizing science discussion events when managing the Scientific science community, astronomical observation events when joining the Semarang Amateur Astronomers Association, and volunteering activities to make booklets about disaster science when joining U-Inspire Indonesia.
Now I work full time as a Data Analyst in a disaster management and scientific knowledge consulting company in Indonesia. In addition, I also joined an independent research project in the field of atmospheric physics consisting of researchers from Rice University and PSTA LAPAN (Pusat Sains dan Teknologi Atmosfer, Lembaga Penerbangan dan Antariksa Nasional), researchers from ITB (Institut Teknologi Bandung) and IPB (Institut Pertanian Bogor), and postgraduate students at Melbourne University and Monash University. This research project aims to produce a new scientific study of the atmospheric factors that cause extreme rainfall and flooding in Indonesia.
Problem
Based on BNPB (Badan Nasional Penanggulangan Bencana) data, 78% of natural disasters that occur in Indonesia are hydrometeorological disasters such as extreme weather, cyclones, droughts, and floods. The loss in terms of casualties and the economy from this disaster was enormous. The occurrence of climate change is projected to make hydrometeorological disasters more intense, more frequent, and the affected area more widespread. Unexpected natural disasters can occur, become possible due to climate change. For example, the emergence of tropical cyclones in the oceans near the equator as recently happened was Tropical Cyclone Seroja in East Nusa Tenggara. Another danger that threatens almost 90% of Indonesia's population is the increasing frequency of extreme rainfall in big cities, the majority of which are located on the coast.
What is happening now is that we never know how big the risk of a hydrometeorological disaster is, until the disaster just happens. In contrast to the types of geological disasters that have been mapped quite well because there are visible natural features, the fault structure means an earthquake-prone zone, and volcanoes mean a volcanic lava-prone zone. Hydrometeorological disasters have not been well mapped, due to the very dynamic nature of the atmosphere and oceans. Making every region in Indonesia has a very diverse and localized vulnerability and risk to hydrometeorological disasters.
Solution
Therefore, disaster mitigation efforts must be a major concern, one of the components in disaster mitigation is disaster assessment. Namely identifying what natural disasters have the potential to occur in an area and predicting when they will occur in the future. This is the initial capital for determining what disaster management strategy is the most appropriate. Reliable climate and weather predictions are the backbone of hydrometeorological disaster assessments. Increasing the modeling of the atmosphere and oceans, which are closer to physical conditions, is supported by a capable computing infrastructure, which is a strategic thing to do. With a better understanding of the physical behavior of the atmosphere and the Earth system as a whole, it is hoped that we can make more detailed projections of climate and weather on a space and time scale.
As a country that lay in the area most vulnerable to natural disasters, we should be aware of the dangers, more adaptive, and resilient. Living side by side and in harmony with disaster is not just a slogan. The hope is that Indonesia can become a formidable country due to its human resources that can adapt to nature. Through an increasingly complete disaster management system, starting from the stages of mitigation, prevention, mitigation, to recovery, I believe that Indonesia will become a superior nation.
Current Activities and Dream
Research on hydrometeorological natural disasters is the focus of my research. From the point of view of basic science with internship experience as a researcher in the hydrometeorological disaster research group at PSTA LAPAN and being an assistant to Professor Eddy Hermawan who actively disseminates potential disasters to various policyholders. From the point of view of a disaster consultant who sees it from the perspective of disaster management actors, and from the point of view of the general public by getting involved in U-Inspire.
With my capacity that is always being developed, I want to become a disaster and climate change scientist and be able to determine policies for disaster and climate management strategies. Through holding positions as researchers in government and private research institutions concerned with climate change. Good synergy is needed between basic science research institutes, operational science institutes, policymakers, and society as a whole. I want to encourage this to happen through research collaborations between institutions, both national climate change councils, and international bodies such as the International Panel on Climate Change.
Study Plan
Field of Study
I will conduct my master's studies in atmospheric science, meteorology, and climatology. Based on the research experience I did on my final project and research project, it made me even more challenged. About the extreme rainfall disasters in Makassar, Jakarta, Semarang, and other cities in Indonesia, which turned out to have different driving factors and different responses to climate change. More in-depth research needs to be done to find out more clearly how climate change affects extreme rainfall trends. 
Research Topic
The current theory of the main climate driver in Indonesia is global phenomena such as Monsoon Asia and Australia, ENSO (El Nino and Southern Oscillation), IOD (Indian Ocean Dipole), MJO (Madden Julian Oscillation), and CCEW's (Convectively Coupled Equatorial Waves) like Kelvin Wave, Rossby Wave, Mixed Rossby-Gravitational Wave. Regional phenomena that have a contribution to the weather state of Indonesia are Cold Surge, Cross Equatorial Northerly Surge, Southerly Surge, Tropical Cyclone, High and Low-Pressure System, and local convective activity. The driver has been quite well identified, but the weather and climate response in the detailed level such as in the city level is limited and often not quite precise. There is still a niche area that needs to study for better predicting the future state of weather and climate at least in the major cities in Indonesia. This is the topic that I will take up in my thesis research. These results from my study are useful for calculating disaster assessments that will measure the magnitude of the impact of the disaster on humans, the environment, and the economy in each region in Indonesia.  
University
I will choose a master's program in Applied Meteorology and Climate Management at the University of Reading, or Atmospheric Science at the University of Hawai'i at Manoa, or Atmospheric Science at the University of British Columbia.
The University of Reading is one of the best meteorology departments in the world. The curriculum structure of the 12 months Master's Study Program Applied Meteorology and Climate Management is solid and essential to becoming a professional disaster researcher and consultant.  This program is interdisciplinary learning and will be split between the world-class Department of Meteorology at the University of Reading is ranked 2nd in the world for research in Meteorology and Atmospheric Sciences and the triple-accredited Henley Business School. The courses I will take include Managing people and organizations, Computing, Forecast systems and applications, Atmospheric Physics, Weather and Climate, Professional Skills, Field Course, Dissertation Project, Hazardous Weather Analysis, Preparing for Floods, Climate Change, Tropical Weather Systems, Hydrology, and Global Environmental Change.  The Meteorology Department at the University of Reading has a research group on tropical weather, climate dynamics, and urban meteorology which is filled by Professors who are members of the IPCC (International Panel on Climate Change), ECMWF (European Center for Medium-Range Weather Forecast), Met Office (United Kingdom Weather Office), NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration), NCAR (National Center for Atmospheric Research), and WMO (World Meteorological Organization).
Not much different from the University of Reading, the University of Hawai'i at Manoa provided courses in dynamic, synoptic, and physical meteorology. Master of Science in Atmospheric Science at this university has a strong foundation in tropical meteorology which is the department’s special field.
The University of British Columbia (UBC) also has an appropriate curriculum for studying tropical climate and weather. They have research groups on weather-related natural disasters, air pollution and atmospheric chemistry, micrometeorology, cloud, and aerosol physics, atmospheric radiation and remote sensing, fluid dynamics, climate dynamics and climate change, glaciology, atmosphere-ocean interactions, urban meteorology, numerical weather prediction, artificial neural networks, big data, and much more. The UBC Atmospheric Science program is interdisciplinary, with professors in the departments of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Science; Geography; Chemistry; Mathematics; Soil Science; and Mechanical Engineering.  Internationally recognized textbooks written by their professors over the past four decades span topics from the atmospheric boundary layer and urban climates to practical meteorology.
Contribution to Indonesia
With the knowledge and skills that I will gain, I will be very motivated to contribute to Indonesia, especially in the field of hydrometeorological disasters and climate change to assist disaster mitigation under national aspirations as a disaster-resilient society. My current job is as a data analyst at CARI! (Cerdas Antisipasi Risiko Bencana di Indonesia), a start-up company in the field of disaster consulting and knowledge management. CARI! has handled a consultation project with BNPB, ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations), and other non-government institutions, which examines disaster risks in each region in more detail. Therefore, I want to be involved in developing national capacity to be more prepared and resilient to face hydrometeorological disasters which are urgently needed. If I have the opportunity to get this scholarship, I will take on the role of a researcher and consultant in my current company as well as in government research institutions and universities, and commit to continuing my education up to doctoral.
